STREAM TO SHORTS - Linux
Turn long videos into vertical Shorts, on your own machine.

github.com/kleZ799/stream-to-shorts


READ THIS FIRST
---------------
NOBODY HAS RUN THIS ON A DESKTOP DISTRIBUTION YET.

It is built and exercised under WSL, and every published build is started by
the release workflow and asked for its interface before the release exists --
so it does unpack, import, bind a port and serve you the app. That is not the
same thing as somebody sitting in front of Fedora and making a Short with it.

If something goes wrong, that is a bug here and not something you did. There
are instructions at the bottom, and I would like to hear about it.


INSTALLING
----------
There is nothing to install. The download is the program.

    chmod +x StreamToShorts-linux-x86_64
    ./StreamToShorts-linux-x86_64

A downloaded file arrives without permission to run -- that is the browser
being careful, not something wrong with the file.

Put it wherever you like. ~/.local/bin or ~/Applications are both reasonable.
It updates itself in place from then on, so wherever you put it is where new
versions will appear.

The first start is the slowest: it unpacks itself into /tmp and loads the
transcription models before anything appears. Every launch unpacks again --
that is the price of being one file that is able to replace itself.


WHAT IT NEEDS
-------------
  glibc 2.35 or newer
      Ubuntu 22.04, Debian 12, Fedora 36, and anything after them. That floor
      is chosen rather than inherited: the release is built inside an Ubuntu
      22.04 container and refuses to publish anything that asks for more.

  libGL.so.1
      OpenCV wants it, for the face tracking. Every desktop already has it,
      so on a normal installation there is nothing to do. On a headless box --
      a server you are running this on over SSH -- install it first:

          sudo apt install libgl1          Debian, Ubuntu
          sudo dnf install mesa-libGL      Fedora

      It is not bundled because a graphics library belongs to your machine's
      own driver stack; shipping one would be shipping the wrong one. Without
      it the app still starts, serves and downloads -- and then fails at the
      moment it first looks for a face, which is a confusing place to find
      out. Worth installing up front if you are not on a desktop.

  notify-send, optionally
      For the notification when a run finishes. Most desktops have it, as
      part of libnotify-bin; KDE's kdialog is used instead when that is what
      is installed. With neither, the app writes a line in its log and carries
      on, and you check on it yourself.

Nothing else. No Python, no ffmpeg -- both are inside the file. x86-64 only;
there is no ARM build.


IT OPENS YOUR BROWSER, NOT A WINDOW
-----------------------------------
This is deliberate, and it is the one real difference from the Windows build.

Windows carries a webview in the operating system and so does macOS. Linux
carries neither. The one that exists here, WebKit2GTK, cannot be bundled and
carried: it renders pages in a separate process that it finds by a path
compiled in when *your* distribution built it, so a bundled copy opens a
window that stays blank. A working browser beats a blank window.

It opens on its own, at a 127.0.0.1 address that exists only on your machine.
If nothing opens -- a server with no desktop, an SSH session -- the address is
printed in the terminal and works from any browser on that machine.

Running from source, with python3-gi installed, does get you a real window.


USING IT
--------
1. Paste a Gemini API key. It asks on the first run, and a free one takes a
   minute to get: aistudio.google.com/apikey

   It is stored at ~/.config/StreamToShorts/settings.json and goes nowhere
   else except to Google, by you.

2. Give it a video. Paste a YouTube URL or drag a file straight in. Paste a
   *channel* URL and it lists recent videos to pick from.

3. Describe the layout in plain English -- "webcam bottom left, gameplay
   above it", "just the speaker, filling the frame". A live preview redraws
   as you type. Choose how many clips you want and how long they should be.

4. Start it, and go and do something else. Everything from here runs on this
   machine: it downloads, transcribes, ranks the moments and cuts them to
   9:16. A long VOD takes a while. Transcribing runs on the CPU.

   The app raises a desktop notification when it finishes, so you do not have
   to watch it. If you are looking at the page it stays quiet.

5. Find the clips in:

       ~/Videos/StreamToShorts/shorts/

   in a folder named after the video. The Reveal button opens your file
   manager on them. Sources and transcripts go to
   ~/Videos/StreamToShorts/output/, and that folder is safe to delete when
   you want the disk space back.


UPDATES
-------
It updates itself, the same as the Windows build does. It notices new
releases, checks the download against the SHA-256 GitHub publishes for it,
and replaces itself in place. The download you just did is the only one you
do by hand.

Nothing is touched until the checksum matches, so a failed download leaves
the working app exactly as it was.


IF SOMETHING GOES WRONG
-----------------------
Run it from a terminal rather than from a launcher -- errors print where you
can see them. If it was started without a terminal, it writes to:

    ~/Videos/StreamToShorts/app.log

Open an issue with what you saw, that log, and which distribution you are on:

    github.com/kleZ799/stream-to-shorts/issues/new

Nobody has used this on a desktop yet, so the first few reports are worth a
great deal. "It printed this and stopped" is enough to act on.


UNINSTALLING
------------
Delete the file. Then, if you want it gone completely:

    ~/.config/StreamToShorts      settings and your key
    ~/Videos/StreamToShorts       clips, sources, logs

Nothing is installed anywhere else. No service, no autostart entry, nothing
written outside your home directory.


MIT licensed. Fork it, ship it, build on it -- the licence asks one thing:
keep the copyright notice.

Built by Parth Bhadana.
youtube.com/@ParthBhadana799 | github.com/kleZ799 | discord.gg/jnMrGbBz3m
